'John R. Cash (born J. R. Cash; February 26, 1932 – September 12, 2003) was an American singer-songwriter, guitarist, actor, and author. He is widely considered one of the most influential musicians of the 20th century and is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, having sold more than 90 million records worldwide. Although primarily remembered as a country music icon, his genre-spanning songs and sound embraced rock and roll, rockabilly, blues, folk, and gospel. This crossover appeal won Cash the rare honor of multiple inductions in the Country Music, Rock and Roll, and Gospel Music Halls of Fame. Cash was known for his deep, calm bass-baritone voice, the distinctive sound of his Tennessee Three backing band, a rebelliousness coupled with an increasingly somber and humble demeanor, free prison concerts, and a trademark look, which earned him the nickname "The Man in Black." He traditionally began his concerts with the simple "Hello, I'm Johnny Cash," followed by his signature "Folsom Prison Blues". Much of Cash's music contained themes of sorrow, moral tribulation, and redemption, especially in the latter stages of his career. His signature songs include "I Walk the Line", "Folsom Prison Blues", "Ring of Fire", "Get Rhythm", and "Man in Black". He also recorded humorous numbers like "One Piece at a Time" and "A Boy Named Sue"; a duet with his future wife, June Carter, called "Jackson" (followed by many further duets after their marriage); and railroad songs including "Hey, Porter", "Orange Blossom Special" and "Rock Island Line". During the last stage of his career, Cash covered songs by several late 20th-century rock artists, notably "Hurt" by Nine Inch Nails and "Personal Jesus" by Depeche Mode. J. R. Cash was born on February 26, 1932 in Kingsland, Arkansas, one of seven children born to Ray Cash (May 13, 1897 in Kingsland, Arkansas – December 23, 1985 in Hendersonville, Tennessee) and Carrie Cloveree (née Rivers; March 13, 1904 in Rison, Arkansas – March 11, 1991 in Hendersonville, Tennessee). He was primarily of English and Scottish descent, and as an adult traced his surname to 11th-century Fife after meeting with the then-laird of Falkland, Major Michael Crichton-Stuart. Cash Loch and other locations in Fife bear the name of his family. At birth, Cash was named J. R. Cash. When Cash enlisted in the United States Air Force, he was not permitted to use initials as a first name, so he changed his name to John R. Cash. In 1955, when signing with Sun Records, he took Johnny Cash as his stage name. The Cash children were Roy, Margaret Louise, Jack, J. R., Reba, Joanne, and Tommy. Tommy Cash also became a successful country artist. In March 1935, when Cash was three years old, the family settled in Dyess, Arkansas. He started working in cotton fields at the age of five, singing along with his family while working. The family farm was flooded on at least two occasions, which later inspired him to write the song "Five Feet High and Rising". His family's economic and personal struggles during the Great Depression inspired many of his songs, especially those about other people facing similar difficulties. Cash was very close to his older brother, Jack. In May 1944, Jack was pulled into a whirling head saw in the mill where he worked and was almost cut in two. He suffered for over a week before he died on May 20, 1944, at the age of 15. Cash often spoke of the horrible guilt he felt over this incident. According to Cash: The Autobiography, his father was away that morning, but he and his mother, and Jack himself, all had premonitions or a sense of foreboding about that day, causing his mother to urge Jack to skip work and go fishing with his brother. Jack insisted on working, as the family needed the money. On his deathbed, Jack said he had visions of Heaven and angels. Decades later, Cash spoke of looking forward to meeting his brother in Heaven. Cash's early memories were dominated by gospel music and radio. Taught guitar by his mother and a childhood friend, Cash began playing and writing songs at the age of twelve. When Cash was young, he had a high tenor voice, before becoming a bass-baritone. In high school, he sang on a local radio station; decades later he released an album of traditional gospel songs, called My Mother's Hymn Book. He was also significantly influenced by traditional Irish music that he heard performed weekly by Dennis Day on the Jack Benny radio program. Cash enlisted in the United States Air Force on July 7, 1950. After basic training at Lackland Air Force Base and technical training at Brooks Air Force Base, both in San Antonio, Texas, Cash was assigned to the 12th Radio Squadron Mobile of the U.S. Air Force Security Service at Landsberg, Germany as a Morse Code operator intercepting Soviet Army transmissions. It was there he created his first band, named "The Landsberg Barbarians". He was honorably discharged as a staff sergeant on July 3, 1954, and returned to Texas. During his military service, he acquired a distinctive scar on the right side of his jaw as a result of surgery to remove a cyst. On July 18, 1951, while in Air Force training, Cash met 17-year-old Vivian Liberto at a roller skating rink in her native San Antonio. They dated for three weeks until Cash was deployed to Germany for a three-year tour. During that time, the couple exchanged hundreds of pages of love letters. On August 7, 1954, one month after his discharge, they were married at St. Ann's Roman Catholic Church in San Antonio. The ceremony was performed by her uncle, Father Vincent Liberto. They had four daughters: Rosanne, Kathy, Cindy, and Tara. Liberto stated that Cash's drug and alcohol abuse, as well as constant touring, affairs with other women, and his close relationship with June Carter led her to file for divorce in 1966. Cash met June Carter, of the famed Carter Family while on tour and became infatuated, as did she. In 1968, 13 years after they first met backstage at the Grand Ole Opry, Cash proposed to June, during a live performance in London, Ontario. The couple married on March 1, 1968, in Franklin, Kentucky. They had one child together, John Carter Cash, born March 3, 1970. Cash and Carter continued to work, raise their children, create music, and tour together for 35 years until June's death in May 2003. Throughout their marriage June attempted to keep Cash off of amphetamines, often taking his drugs and flushing them down the toilet. June remained with Johnny throughout multiple rehab visits and years of drug abuse. After June's passing, Cash believed that his only reason for living was his music. Cash died four months later. In 1954, Cash and Vivian moved to Memphis, Tennessee, where he sold appliances while studying to be a radio announcer. At night he played with guitarist Luther Perkins and bassist Marshall Grant. Perkins and Grant were known as the Tennessee Two. Cash worked up the courage to visit the Sun Records studio, hoping to get a recording contract. After auditioning for Sam Phillips, singing mostly gospel songs, Phillips told him that he didn't record gospel music any longer. It was once rumored that Phillips told Cash to "go home and sin, then come back with a song I can sell", although in a 2002 interview Cash denied that Phillips made any such comment. Cash eventually won over the producer with new songs delivered in his early rockabilly style. In 1955, Cash made his first recordings at Sun, "Hey Porter" and "Cry! Cry! Cry!", which were released in late June and met with success on the country hit parade. On December 4, 1956, Elvis Presley dropped in on Phillips while Carl Perkins was in the studio cutting new tracks, with Jerry Lee Lewis backing him on piano. Cash was also in the studio and the four started an impromptu jam session. Phillips left the tapes running and the recordings, almost half of which were gospel songs, survived and have since been released under the title Million Dollar Quartet. In Cash: the Autobiography, Cash wrote that he was the one farthest from the microphone and was singing in a higher pitch to blend in with Elvis. Cash's next record, "Folsom Prison Blues", made the country Top 5, and "I Walk the Line" became No. 1 on the country charts and entered the pop charts Top 20. "Home of the Blues" followed, recorded in July 1957. That same year Cash became the first Sun artist to release a long-playing album. Although he was Sun's most consistently selling and prolific artist at that time, Cash felt constrained by his contract with the small label partly due to the fact that Phillips wasn't keen on Johnny recording gospel, and he was getting only a 3% royalty as opposed to the standard rate of 5%. Presley had already left Sun, and Phillips was focusing most of his attention and promotion on Lewis. The following year, Cash left the label to sign a lucrative offer with Columbia Records, where his single "Don't Take Your Guns to Town" became one of his biggest hits and his second album for Columbia was a collection of gospel songs. However, Cash left behind a sufficient backlog of recordings with Sun that Phillips continued to release new singles and even albums featuring previously unreleased material until as late as 1964, placing Cash in the unusual position of having new releases out on two labels concurrently, with one 1960 release, a cover of "Oh Lonesome Me" making as high as No. 13 on the C&W charts. (As opposed to when RCA Victor signed Presley and also bought his Sun Records masters, when Cash departed for Columbia, Phillips retained the rights to Cash's Sun masters; Columbia eventually licensed some of these recordings for release on compilations after Cash's death.) Early in his career, he was given the teasing nickname The Undertaker by fellow artists because of his habit of wearing black clothes – though he did so only because they were easier to keep looking clean on long tours. In the early 1960s, Cash toured with the Carter Family, which by this time regularly included Mother Maybelle's daughters, Anita, June, and Helen. June later recalled admiring him from afar during these tours. In the 1960s, he appeared on Pete Seeger's short-lived television series Rainbow Quest. He also acted in and wrote and sang the opening theme for a 1961 film entitled Five Minutes to Live, later re-released as Door-to-door Maniac. Cash's career was handled by Saul Holiff, a London, Ontario, promoter, and this relationship was the subject of Saul's son's biopic My Father and the Man in Black. As his career was taking off in the late 1950s, Cash started drinking heavily and became addicted to amphetamines and barbiturates. For a brief time, he shared an apartment in Nashville with Waylon Jennings, who was heavily addicted to amphetamines. Cash used the uppers to stay awake during tours. Friends joked about his "nervousness" and erratic behavior, many ignoring the warning signs of his worsening drug addiction. Although he was in many ways spiraling out of control, Cash's frenetic creativity was still delivering hits. His rendition of "Ring of Fire" was a crossover hit, reaching No. 1 on the country charts and entering the Top 20 on the pop charts. It was originally performed by June's sister, but the signature mariachi-style horn arrangement was provided by Cash, who said that it had come to him in a dream. Vivian Liberto claimed a different version of the origins of "Ring of Fire." In her book, I Walked the Line: My Life with Johnny, Liberto states that Cash gave Carter the credit for monetary reasons. In June 1965, his camper caught fire during a fishing trip with his nephew Damon Fielder in Los Padres National Forest in California, triggering a forest fire that burnt several hundred acres and nearly killed Cash. Cash claimed that the fire was caused by sparks from a defective exhaust system on his camper, but Fielder thinks that Cash started a fire to stay warm and in his drugged condition failed to notice the fire getting out of control. When the judge asked Cash why he did it, Cash said, "I didn't do it, my truck did, and it's dead, so you can't question it." The fire destroyed 508 acres (206 ha), burning the foliage off three mountains and driving off forty-nine of the refuge's 53 endangered condors. Cash was unrepentant and claimed, "I don't care about your damn yellow buzzards." The federal government sued him and was awarded $125,172. Cash eventually settled the case and paid $82,001. He said he was the only person ever sued by the government for starting a forest fire. Although Cash carefully cultivated a romantic outlaw image, he never served a prison sentence. Despite landing in jail seven times for misdemeanors, each stay lasted only a single night. His most infamous run-in with the law occurred while on tour in 1965, when he was arrested October 4 by a narcotics squad in El Paso, Texas. The officers suspected he was smuggling heroin from Mexico, but found instead 688 Dexedrine capsules (amphetamines) and 475 Equanil (sedatives or tranquilizers) tablets that the singer had hidden inside his guitar case. Because the pills were prescription drugs rather than illegal narcotics, he received a suspended sentence. Cash had also been arrested on May 11, 1965, in Starkville, Mississippi, for trespassing late at night onto private property to pick flowers. (This incident gave the spark for the song "Starkville City Jail", which he discussed on his live At San Quentin album.) In the mid-1960s, Cash released a number of concept albums, including Sings the Ballads of the True West (1965), an experimental double record mixing authentic frontier songs with Cash's spoken narration, and Bitter Tears (1964), with songs highlighting the plight of the Native Americans. His drug addiction was at its worst at this point, and his destructive behavior led to a divorce from his first wife and canceled performances. Nonetheless, he continued to find success and in 1967, Cash's duet with June Carter, "Jackson," won a Grammy Award. Cash's final arrest was in 1967 in Walker County, Georgia, after being involved in a car accident while carrying a bag of prescription pills. Cash attempted to bribe a local deputy, who turned the money down; Cash then spent the night in a LaFayette, Georgia, jail. The singer was released after a long talk with Sheriff Ralph Jones, who warned him of his dangerous behavior and wasted potential. Cash credited that experience for saving his life, and he later came back to LaFayette to play a benefit concert that attracted 12,000 people (the city population was less than 9,000 at the time) and raised $75,000 for the high school. Reflecting on his past in a 1997 interview, Cash noted: "I was taking the pills for awhile, and then the pills started taking me." Cash curtailed his use of drugs for several years in 1968, after a spiritual epiphany in the Nickajack Cave, when he attempted to commit suicide while under the heavy influence of drugs. He descended deeper into the cave, trying to lose himself and "just die," when he passed out on the floor. He reported being exhausted and feeling at the end of his rope when he felt God's presence in his heart and managed to struggle out of the cave (despite the exhaustion) by following a faint light and slight breeze. To him, it was his own rebirth. June, Maybelle, and Ezra Carter moved into Cash's mansion for a month to help him conquer his addiction. Cash proposed onstage to June at a concert at the London Gardens in London, Ontario, Canada, on February 22, 1968; the couple married a week later (on March 1) in Franklin, Kentucky. She had agreed to marry Cash after he had "cleaned up." He rediscovered his Christian faith, taking an "altar call" in Evangel Temple, a small church in the Nashville area, pastored by Reverend Jimmie Rodgers Snow, son of country music legend Hank Snow. According to longtime friend Marshall Grant, Cash's 1968 rebirth experience did not result in his completely stopping use of amphetamines. However, beginning in 1970, Cash ended all drug use for a period of seven years. Grant claims that the birth of Cash's son, John Carter Cash inspired Cash to end his dependence. Cash began using amphetamines again in 1977. By 1983, he was once again addicted and entered the Betty Ford Clinic in Rancho Mirage, California for rehabilitation. Cash managed to stay off drugs for several years, but by 1989, he was dependent again and entered Nashville's Cumberland Heights Alcohol and Drug Treatment Center. In 1992, he entered the Loma Linda Behavioral Medicine Center in Loma Linda, California, for his final rehabilitation (several months later, his son followed him into this facility for treatment). Cash began performing concerts at prisons starting in the late 1950s. He played his first famous prison concert on January 1, 1958, at San Quentin State Prison. These performances led to a pair of highly successful live albums, Johnny Cash at Folsom Prison (1968) and Johnny Cash at San Quentin (1969). Both live albums reached number 1 on Billboard country album music and the latter crossed over to reach the top of the Billboard pop album chart. In 1969 Cash became an international hit when he eclipsed even the Beatles by selling 6.5 million albums. In comparison, the prison concerts were much more successful than his later live albums such as Strawberry Cake recorded in London and Live at Madison Square Garden, which peaked at #33 and #39 on the album charts respectively. The Folsom Prison record was introduced by a rendition of his "Folsom Prison Blues," while the San Quentin record included the crossover hit single "A Boy Named Sue," a Shel Silverstein-penned novelty song that reached No. 1 on the country charts and No. 2 on the U.S. Top Ten pop charts. The AM versions of the latter contained profanities which were edited out. The modern CD versions are unedited and thus also longer than the original vinyl albums, though they retain the audience reaction overdubs of the originals. Cash performed at the Österåker Prison in Sweden in 1972. The live album På Österåker ("At Österåker") was released in 1973. "San Quentin" was recorded with Cash replacing "San Quentin" with "Österåker". In 1976, a further prison concert, this time at Tennessee Prison, was videotaped for TV broadcast and received a belated CD release after Cash's death as A Concert Behind Prison Walls. In 1965, Cash and June Carter appeared on Pete Seeger's TV show, Rainbow Quest, on which Cash explained his start as an activist for Native Americans: In '57, I wrote a song called 'Old Apache Squaw' and then forgot the so-called Indian protest for a while, but nobody else seemed to speak up with any volume of voice. Columbia, the label for which Cash was recording then, was opposed to putting the song on his next album, considering it "too radical for the public". Cash singing songs of Indian tragedy and settler violence went radically against the mainstream of country music in the 1950s, which was dominated by the image of the righteous cowboy who simply makes the native's soil his own. In 1964, coming off the chart success that his previous album "I Walk The Line" had been, he recorded the aforementioned album Bitter Tears: Ballads of the American Indian. The album featured stories of a multitude of native peoples, mostly of their violent oppression by white settlers: The Pima ("The Ballad of Ira Hayes"), Navajo ("Navajo"), Apache ("Apache Tears"), Lakota ("Big Foot"), Seneca ("As Long as the Grass Shall Grow"), and Cherokee ("Talking Leaves"). Cash wrote three of the songs himself and one with the help of Johnny Horton, but the majority of the protest songs were written by folk artist Peter La Farge (son of activist and Pulitzer prizewinner Oliver La Farge), whom Cash met in New York in the 1960s and whom he admired for his activism. The album's single, "The Ballad of Ira Hayes," was neglected by non-political radio at the time, and the record label denied it any promotion due to its provocative protesting and thus "unappealing" nature. Cash faced resistance and was even urged by an editor of a country music magazine to leave the Country Music Association: "You and your crowd are just too intelligent to associate with plain country folks, country artists, and country DJs." In reaction, on August 22, 1964, the singer posted a letter as an advertisement in Billboard Magazine, calling the record industry cowardly. "D.J.s – station managers – owners ... where are your guts?" he demands. "I had to fight back when I realized that so many stations are afraid of Ira Hayes. Just one question: WHY???" He concludes the letter, "Ira Hayes is strong medicine ... So is Rochester, Harlem, Birmingham and Vietnam." Cash kept promoting the song himself and used his influence on radio disc jockeys he knew eventually to make the song climb to number three on the country charts, while the album rose to number two on the album charts. Later, on The Johnny Cash Show, he continued telling stories of Native-American plight, both in song and through short films, such as the history of the Trail of Tears. In 1966, in response to his activism, the singer was adopted by the Seneca Nation's Turtle Clan. He performed benefits in 1968 at the Rosebud Reservation, close to the historical landmark of the massacre at Wounded Knee, to raise money to help build a school. He also played at the D-Q University in the 1980s. In 1970, Cash recording a reading of John G. Burnett's 1890 80th birthday essay on Cherokee removal for the Historical Landmarks Association (Nashville). === "The Man in Black" === From 1969 to 1971, Cash starred in his own television show, The Johnny Cash Show, on the ABC network. The Statler Brothers opened up for him in every episode; the Carter Family and rockabilly legend Carl Perkins were also part of the regular show entourage. Cash also enjoyed booking mainstream performers as guests; including Neil Young, Louis Armstrong, Neil Diamond, Kenny Rogers and The First Edition (who appeared four times), James Taylor, Ray Charles, Roger Miller, Roy Orbison, Derek and the Dominos, and Bob Dylan. During the same period, he contributed the title song and other songs to the film Little Fauss and Big Halsey, which starred Robert Redford, Michael J. Pollard, and Lauren Hutton. The title song, "The Ballad of Little Fauss and Big Halsey," written by Carl Perkins, was nominated for a Golden Globe award. Cash had met with Dylan in the mid-1960s and became closer friends when they were neighbors in the late 1960s in Woodstock, New York. Cash was enthusiastic about reintroducing the reclusive Dylan to his audience. Cash sang a duet with Dylan on Dylan's country album Nashville Skyline and also wrote the album's Grammy-winning liner notes. Another artist who received a major career boost from The Johnny Cash Show was Kris Kristofferson, who was beginning to make a name for himself as a singer-songwriter. During a live performance of Kristofferson's "Sunday Mornin' Comin' Down," Cash refused to change the lyrics to suit network executives, singing the song with its references to marijuana intact: By the early 1970s, he had crystallized his public image as "The Man in Black." He regularly performed dressed all in black, wearing a long black knee-length coat. This outfit stood in contrast to the costumes worn by most of the major country acts in his day: rhinestone suits and cowboy boots. In 1971, Cash wrote the song "Man in Black," to help explain his dress code: He wore 'black' on behalf of the poor and hungry, on behalf of "the prisoner who has long paid for his crime," and on behalf of those who have been betrayed by age or drugs. "And," Cash added, "with the Vietnam War as painful in my mind as it was in most other Americans, I wore it 'in mournin' for the lives that could have been' ... Apart from the Vietnam War being over, I don't see much reason to change my position ... The old are still neglected, the poor are still poor, the young are still dying before their time, and we're not making many moves to make things right. There's still plenty of darkness to carry off." He and his band had initially worn black shirts because that was the only matching color they had among their various outfits. He wore other colors on stage early in his career, but he claimed to like wearing black both on and off stage. He stated that political reasons aside, he simply liked black as his on-stage color. The outdated US Navy's winter blue uniform used to be referred to by sailors as "Johnny Cashes," as the uniform's shirt, tie, and trousers are solid black. In the mid-1970s, Cash's popularity and number of hit songs began to decline. He made commercials for Amoco and STP, an unpopular enterprise at the time of the 1970s energy crisis. In 1976 he made commercials for Lionel Trains, for which he also wrote the music. However, his first autobiography, Man in Black, was published in 1975 and sold 1.3 million copies. A second, Cash: The Autobiography, appeared in 1997. His friendship with Billy Graham led to the production of a film about the life of Jesus, The Gospel Road, which Cash co-wrote and narrated. Cash and June Carter Cash appeared several times on the Billy Graham Crusade TV specials, and Cash continued to include gospel and religious songs on many of his albums, though Columbia declined to release A Believer Sings the Truth, a gospel double-LP Cash recorded in 1979 and which ended up being released on an independent label even with Cash still under contract to Columbia. On November 22, 1974, CBS ran his one-hour TV special entitled "Riding The Rails", a musical history of trains. He continued to appear on television, hosting Christmas specials on CBS in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Later television appearances included a starring role in an episode of Columbo, entitled "Swan Song". He and June appeared in an episode of Little House on the Prairie, entitled "The Collection". He gave a performance as John Brown in the 1985 American Civil War television mini-series North and South. Johnny and June also appeared in Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman in recurring roles. He was friendly with every US President starting with Richard Nixon. He was closest to Jimmy Carter, with whom he became close friends and who was a distant cousin of his wife, June Carter Cash. When invited to perform at the White House for the first time in 1970, Richard Nixon's office requested that he play "Okie from Muskogee" (a satirical Merle Haggard song about people who despised youthful drug users and war protesters), "Welfare Cadillac" (a Guy Drake song which denies the integrity of welfare recipients), and "A Boy Named Sue." Cash declined to play the first two and instead selected other songs, including "The Ballad of Ira Hayes" (about a brave Native American World War II veteran who was mistreated upon his return to Arizona), and his own compositions, "What Is Truth" and "Man in Black". Cash wrote that the reasons for denying Nixon's song choices were not knowing them and having fairly short notice to rehearse them, rather than any political reason. However, Cash added, even if Nixon's office had given Cash enough time to learn and rehearse the songs, their choice of pieces that conveyed "anti-hippie and anti-black" sentiments might have backfired. In his remarks when introducing Cash, Nixon joked that one thing he'd learned about the singer was one didn't tell him what to sing. In 1980, Cash became the Country Music Hall of Fame's youngest living inductee at age 48. But during the 1980s, his records failed to make a major impact on the country charts, although he continued to tour successfully. In the mid-1980s, he recorded and toured with Waylon Jennings, Willie Nelson, and Kris Kristofferson as The Highwaymen, making three hit albums which were released beginning with the originally titled "Highwaymen" in 1985, followed by "Highwaymen 2" in 1990, and concluding with "Highwaymen – The Road Goes on forever" in 1995. Of the group's four members, Cash was the only non-Texan. During that period, Cash appeared in a number of television films. In 1981, he starred in The Pride of Jesse Hallam, winning fine reviews for a film that called attention to adult illiteracy. In the same year, Cash appeared as a "very special guest star" in an episode of the Muppet Show. In 1983, he appeared as a heroic sheriff in Murder in Coweta County, based on a real-life Georgia murder case, which co-starred Andy Griffith as his nemesis and featured June Carter in a small but important role. Cash had tried for years to make the film, for which he won acclaim. Cash relapsed into addiction after being administered painkillers for a serious abdominal injury in 1983 caused by an unusual incident in which he was kicked and wounded by an ostrich he kept on his farm. At a hospital visit in 1988, this time to watch over Waylon Jennings (who was recovering from a heart attack), Jennings suggested that Cash has himself checked into the hospital for his own heart condition. Doctors recommended preventive heart surgery, and Cash underwent double bypass surgery in the same hospital. Both recovered, although Cash refused to use any prescription painkillers, fearing a relapse into dependency. Cash later claimed that during his operation, he had what is called a "near death experience". Cash's recording career and his general relationship with the Nashville establishment were at an all-time low in the 1980s. He realized that his record label of nearly 30 years, Columbia, was growing indifferent to him and was not properly marketing him (he was "invisible" during that time, as he said in his autobiography). In 1984, Cash released a self-parody recording titled "Chicken in Black," about Cash's brain being transplanted into a chicken and Cash receiving a bank robber's brain in return. Biographer Robert Hilburn, in the 2013-published Johnny Cash: The Life disputes the claim made that Cash chose to record an intentionally poor song in protest of Columbia's treatment of him. On the contrary, Hilburn writes, it was Columbia that presented Cash with the song, which Cash – who had previously scored major chart hits with comedic material such as "A Boy Named Sue" and "One Piece at a Time" – accepted enthusiastically, performing the song live on stage and filming a comedic music video in which he dresses up in a superhero-like bank robber costume. According to Hilburn, Cash's enthusiasm for the song waned after Waylon Jennings told Cash he looked "like a buffoon" in the music video (which was showcased during Cash's 1984 Christmas TV special), and Cash subsequently demanded that Columbia withdraw the music video from broadcast and recall the single from stores—interrupting its bona fide chart success—and termed the venture "a fiasco." Between 1981 and 1984, he recorded several sessions with famed countrypolitan producer Billy Sherrill (who also produced "Chicken in Black") which were shelved; they would be released by Columbia's sister label, Legacy Recordings, in 2014 as Out Among the Stars. Around this time, Cash also recorded an album of gospel recordings that ended up being released by another label around the time of his departure from Columbia (this due to Columbia closing down its Priority Records division that was to have released the recordings). After more unsuccessful recordings were released in 1984–85, Cash left Columbia (At least as a solo artist; he continued to record for Columbia on non-solo projects until as late as 1990, recording a duets album with Waylon Jennings and two albums as a member of The Highwaymen.) In 1986, Cash returned to Sun Studios in Memphis to team up with Roy Orbison, Jerry Lee Lewis, and Carl Perkins to create the album Class of '55; according to Hilburn, Columbia still had Cash under contract at the time, so special arrangements had to be made to allow him to participate. Also in 1986, Cash published his only novel, Man in White, a book about Saul and his conversion to become the Apostle Paul. He recorded Johnny Cash Reads The Complete New Testament in 1990. After Columbia Records dropped Cash from his recording contract, he had a short and unsuccessful stint with Mercury Records from 1987 to 1991. During this time, he recorded an album of new versions of some of his best-known Sun and Columbia hits, as well as Water from the Wells of Home, a duets album that paired him with, among others, his children Rosanne Cash and John Carter Cash, as well as Paul McCartney. A one-off Christmas album recorded for Delta Records followed his Mercury contract. His career was rejuvenated in the 1990s, leading to popularity with an audience which was not traditionally considered interested in country music. In 1991, he sang a version of "Man in Black" for the Christian punk band One Bad Pig's album I Scream Sunday. In 1993, he sang "The Wanderer" on U2's album Zooropa. Although no longer sought after by major labels, he was offered a contract with producer Rick Rubin's American Recordings label, which had recently been rebranded from Def American, under which name it was better known for rap and hard rock. Under Rubin's supervision, he recorded American Recordings (1994) in his living room, accompanied only by his Martin Dreadnought guitar – one of many Cash played throughout his career. The album featured covers of contemporary artists selected by Rubin and had a great deal of critical and commercial success, winning a Grammy for Best Contemporary Folk Album. Cash wrote that his reception at the 1994 Glastonbury Festival was one of the highlights of his career. This was the beginning of a decade of music industry accolades and commercial success. He teamed up with Brooks & Dunn to contribute "Folsom Prison Blues" to the AIDS benefit album Red Hot + Country produced by the Red Hot Organization. On the same album, he performed the Bob Dylan favorite "Forever Young." Cash and his wife appeared on a number of episodes of the television series Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman. He also lent his voice for a cameo role in The Simpsons episode "El Viaje Misterioso de Nuestro Jomer (The Mysterious Voyage of Homer)", as the "Space Coyote" that guides Homer Simpson on a spiritual quest. In 1996, Cash enlisted the accompaniment of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers and released Unchained (also known as American Recordings II), which won the Best Country Album Grammy in 1998. The album was produced by Rick Rubin with Sylvia Massy engineering and mixing. A majority of "Unchained" was recorded at Sound City Studios and featured guest appearances by Lindsay Buckingham, Mick Fleetwood, and Marty Stuart. Believing he did not explain enough of himself in his 1975 autobiography Man in Black, he wrote Cash: The Autobiography in 1997. In 1997, Cash was diagnosed with the neurodegenerative disease Shy–Drager syndrome, a form of multiple system atrophy; according to biographer Robert Hilburn, the disease was originally misdiagnosed as Parkinson's disease, and Cash even announced to a concert audience that he had Parkinson's during a show in Flint, Michigan, on October 25, 1997, after he nearly collapsed on stage; soon after his diagnosis was changed to Shy–Drager and Cash was told he had approximately 18 months to live. The diagnosis was later again altered to autonomic neuropathy associated with diabetes. The illness forced Cash to curtail his touring. He was hospitalized in 1998 with severe pneumonia, which damaged his lungs. During the last stage of his career, Cash released the albums American III: Solitary Man (2000) and American IV: The Man Comes Around (2002). American IV included cover songs by several late 20th-century rock artists, notably "Hurt" by Nine Inch Nails and "Personal Jesus" by Depeche Mode. Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails commented that he was initially skeptical about Cash's plan to cover "Hurt", but was later impressed and moved by the rendition. The video for "Hurt" received critical and popular acclaim. June Carter Cash died on May 15, 2003, at the age of 73. June had told Cash to keep working, so he continued to record, completing 60 more songs in the last four months of his life, and even performed a couple of surprise shows at the Carter Family Fold outside Bristol, Virginia. At the July 5, 2003, concert (his last public performance), before singing "Ring of Fire", Cash read a statement about his late wife that he had written shortly before taking the stage: The spirit of June Carter overshadows me tonight with the love she had for me and the love I have for her. We connect somewhere between here and Heaven. She came down for a short visit, I guess, from Heaven to visit with me tonight to give me courage and inspiration like she always has. Cash continued to record until shortly before his death. His final recordings were made on August 21, 2003, and consisted of "Like the 309", which appeared on American V: A Hundred Highways in 2006, and the final song he completed, "Engine 143", which was recorded for his son John Carter Cash for a planned Carter Family tribute album. While hospitalized at Baptist Hospital in Nashville, Cash died of complications from diabetes at approximately 2:00 a.m. CT on September 12, 2003, aged 71—less than four months after his wife. It was suggested that Johnny's health worsened due to a broken heart over June's death. He was buried next to his wife in Hendersonville Memory Gardens near his home in Hendersonville, Tennessee. In June 2005, Cash's lakeside home on Caudill Drive in Hendersonville was put up for sale by his estate. In January 2006, the house was sold to Bee Gees vocalist Barry Gibb and wife Linda, and titled to their Florida limited liability company for $2.3 million. The listing agent was Cash's younger brother, Tommy. On April 10, 2007, during a major restoration of the property by the new owner, Cash's home was accidentally destroyed in a spontaneous combustion-ignited fire caused by workers using linseed oil products. One of Cash's final collaborations with producer Rick Rubin, American V: A Hundred Highways, was released posthumously on July 4, 2006. The album debuted in the No.1 position on the Billboard Top 200 album chart for the week ending July 22, 2006. On February 23, 2010, three days before what would have been Cash's 78th birthday, the Cash Family, Rick Rubin, and Lost Highway Records released his second posthumous record, titled American VI: Ain't No Grave. Cash was raised by his parents in the Southern Baptist denomination of Christianity. He was baptized in 1944 in the Tyronza River as a member of the Central Baptist Church of Dyess, Arkansas. A troubled but devout Christian, Cash has been characterized as a "lens through which to view American contradictions and challenges." A biblical scholar, he penned a Christian novel, Man in White, and in the introduction Cash writes about a reporter who, interested in Cash's religious beliefs, questions whether the book is written from a Baptist, Catholic, or Jewish perspective. Cash denies an answer to the book's view and his own, and replies, "I'm a Christian. Don't put me in another box." He made a spoken word recording of the entire New King James Version of the New Testament. Cash declared he was "the biggest sinner of them all", and viewed himself overall as a complicated and contradictory man. Accordingly, Cash is said to have "contained multitudes," and has been deemed "the philosopher-prince of American country music." Cash is credited with having converted actor and singer John Schneider to Christianity. Cash's daughter Rosanne (by first wife Vivian Liberto) and his son John Carter Cash (by June Carter Cash) are notable musicians in their own right. Cash nurtured and defended artists (such as Bob Dylan) on the fringes of what was acceptable in country music even while serving as the country music establishment's most visible symbol. At an all-star concert which aired in 1999 on TNT, a diverse group of artists paid him tribute, including Dylan, Chris Isaak, Wyclef Jean, Norah Jones, Kris Kristofferson, Willie Nelson, Dom DeLuise, and U2. Cash himself appeared at the end and performed for the first time in more than a year. Two tribute albums were released shortly before his death; Kindred Spirits contains works from established artists, while Dressed in Black contains works from many lesser-known musicians. In total, he wrote over 1,000 songs and released dozens of albums. A box set titled Unearthed was issued posthumously. It included four CDs of unreleased material recorded with Rubin as well as a Best of Cash on American retrospective CD. The set also includes a 104-page book that discusses each track and features one of Cash's final interviews. In recognition of his lifelong support of SOS Children's Villages, his family invited friends and fans to donate to the Johnny Cash Memorial Fund in his memory. He had a personal link with the SOS village in Diessen, at the Ammersee Lake in Southern Germany, near where he was stationed as a GI, and with the SOS village in Barrett Town, by Montego Bay, near his holiday home in Jamaica. In 1999, Cash received the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. In 2004, Rolling Stone ranked Cash No. 31 on their "100 Greatest Artists of All Time" list and No. 21 on their "100 Greatest Singers" list in 2010. In 2012 Rolling Stone ranked Cash's 1968 live album At Folsom Prison and 1994 studio album American Recordings at No. 88 and No. 366 in its list of the 500 greatest albums of all time. The main street in Hendersonville, Tennessee, Highway 31E, is known as "Johnny Cash Parkway." The Johnny Cash Museum, located in one of Cash's properties in Hendersonville until 2006, dubbed the House of Cash, was sold based on Cash's will. Prior to this, having been closed for a number of years, the museum had been featured in Cash's music video for "Hurt." The house subsequently burned down during the renovation by the new owner. A new museum, founded by Shannon and Bill Miller, opened April 26, 2013, in downtown Nashville. On November 2–4, 2007, the Johnny Cash Flower Pickin' Festival was held in Starkville, Mississippi, where Cash had been arrested more than 40 years earlier and held overnight at the city jail on May 11, 1965. The incident inspired Cash to write the song "Starkville City Jail". The festival, where he was offered a symbolic posthumous pardon, honored Cash's life and music and was expected to become an annual event. JC Unit One, Johnny Cash's private tour bus from 1980 until 2003, was put on exhibit at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum in Cleveland, Ohio, in 2007. The museum offers public tours of the bus on a seasonal basis (it is stored during the winter months and not exhibited during those times). A limited-edition Forever stamp honoring Cash went on sale June 5, 2013. The stamp features a promotional picture of Cash taken around the 1963 release of "Ring of Fire: The Best of Johnny Cash. WWE Superstar The Undertaker used Cash's version of "Ain't No Grave" at WrestleMania XXVII as his entrance theme. On October 14, 2014, The City of Folsom unveiled Phase 1 of the Johnny Cash Trail to the public with a dedication and ribbon-cutting ceremony attended by Roseanne Cash. Along the trail, eight larger-than-life public art pieces will tell the story of Johnny Cash, his connection to Folsom Prison, and his epic musical career. The Johnny Cash Trail features art selected by a committee that included Cindy Cash, a 2-acre (0.81 ha) Legacy Park, and over 3 miles (4.8 km) of multi-use Class-I bike trail. The artists responsible for the sculptures are Sacramento-based Romo Studios, LLC and the Fine Art Studio of Rotblatt Amrany, from Illinios. In 2015, a new species of black tarantula was identified near Folsom Prison and named Aphonopelma johnnycashi in his honor. In 2016, the Nashville Sounds minor league baseball team added the "Country Legends Race" to its between-innings entertainment. At the middle of the fifth inning, people in oversized foam caricature costumes depicting Cash, as well as George Jones and Reba McEntire, race around the warning track at First Tennessee Park from center field to the home plate side of the first base dugout. Country singer Mark Collie portrayed Cash in John Lloyd Miller's award-winning 1999 short film I Still Miss Someone. In November 2005, Walk the Line, a biographical film about Cash's life, was released in the United States to considerable commercial success and critical acclaim. The film featured Joaquin Phoenix as Johnny (for which he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor) and Reese Witherspoon as June (for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress). Phoenix and Witherspoon also won the Golden Globe for Best Actor in a Musical or Comedy and Best Actress in a Musical or Comedy, respectively. They both performed their own vocals in the film (with their version of "Jackson" being released as a single), and Phoenix learned to play guitar for the role. Phoenix received a Grammy Award for his contributions to the soundtrack. John Carter Cash, the son of Johnny and June, served as an executive producer. On March 12, 2006, Ring of Fire, a jukebox musical of the Cash oeuvre, debuted on Broadway at the Ethel Barrymore Theater but closed due to harsh reviews and disappointing sales on April 30. Million Dollar Quartet, a musical portraying the early Sun recording sessions involving Cash, Elvis Presley, Jerry Lee Lewis, and Carl Perkins, debuted on Broadway on April 11, 2010. Actor Lance Guest portrayed Cash. The musical was nominated for three awards at the 2010 Tony Awards and won one. Robert Hilburn, veteran Los Angeles Times pop music critic, the journalist who accompanied Cash in his 1968 Folsom prison tour, and interviewed Cash many times throughout his life including months before his death, published a 688-page biography with 16 pages of photographs in 2013. The meticulously reported biography is said to have filled in the 80 percent of Cash's life that was unknown, including details about Cash's battles with addiction and infidelity. The book reportedly does not hold back any details about the darker side of Johnny Cash and includes details about his affair with his pregnant wife June Carter's sister. Cash received multiple Country Music Association Awards, Grammys, and other awards, in categories ranging from vocal and spoken performances to album notes and videos. In a career that spanned almost five decades, during which he rose to recording industry icon status, Cash was the personification of country music to many people around the world. Cash was a musician who was not defined by a single genre. He recorded songs that could be considered rock and roll, blues, rockabilly, folk, and gospel, and exerted an influence on each of those genres. His diversity was evidenced by his presence in five major music halls of fame: the Nashville Songwriters Hall of Fame (1977), the Country Music Hall of Fame (1980), the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame (1992), GMA's Gospel Music Hall of Fame (2010) and the Memphis Music Hall of Fame (2013). Cash was the only country music artist inducted to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a "performer", unlike the other country members, who were inducted as "early influences". His contributions to the genre have been recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame. Cash received the Kennedy Center Honors in 1996 and stated that his induction into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1980 was his greatest professional achievement. In 2001, he was awarded the National Medal of Arts. "Hurt" was nominated for six VMAs at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards. The only VMA the video won was that for Best Cinematography. With the video, Johnny Cash became the oldest artist ever nominated for an MTV Video Music Award. Justin Timberlake, who won Best Video that year for "Cry Me a River," said in his acceptance speech: "This is a travesty! I demand a recount. My grandfather raised me on Johnny Cash, and I think he deserves this more than any of us in here tonight." Man in Black: His Own Story in His Own Words, Zondervan, 1975; ISBN 99924-31-58-X Man in White, a novel about the Apostle Paul, HarperCollins, 1986; ISBN 0-06-250132-1 Cash: The Autobiography, with Patrick Carr, HarperCollins, 1997; ISBN 978-0-06-101357-7 Johnny Cash Reads the New Testament, Thomas Nelson, 2011; ISBN 978-1-4185-4883-4 Recollections by Johnny Cash, edited by daughter Tara, 2014; ISBN 978-0-930677-03-9 Jonathan Silverman, Nine Choices: Johnny Cash and American Culture, Amherst: University of Massachusetts, 2010, ISBN 1-55849-826-5 Graeme Thomson, The Resurrection of Johnny Cash: Hurt, Redemption, and American Recordings, Jawbone Press, ISBN 978-1-906002-36-7 Christopher S. Wren, Johnny Cash: Winners Got Scars, Too, Abacus Editions, ISBN 0-349-13740-4 Robert Hilburn, Johnny Cash: The Life, Back Bay Books, New York: Little Brown and Company, 2013, ISBN 978-0-316-19474-7(pb) Official website Sony Music's Johnny Cash website "Inductee Johnny Cash", Candidates, Hit Parade Hall of Fame, archived from the original on January 6, 2008 . Johnny Cash at AllMusic Johnny Cash on Internet Movie Database "Johnny Cash". Find a Grave. Retrieved November 30, 2013. Johnny Cash profile at martinguitar.com'
"This is an alphabetical list of the songs known to have been recorded written and/ or performed by Johnny Cash between the beginning of his career in 1954 and his death in 2003. See also Johnny Cash discography, and Johnny Cash Sun Records discography. Tennessee == 0-9 == The 20th Century Is Almost Over 25 Minutes to Go 7:06 Union Abner Brown Accidentally On Purpose Adios Aloha Adulterous Woman After All After Taxes After The Ball Against The Wind Agony In Gethsemane Ah Bos Cee Dah Ain’t Gonna Hobo No more Ain't Gonna Work Tomorrow Ain’t No Grave Ain't You Ashamed All Around Cowboy All I Do Is Drive All Of God's Children Ain't Free All Over Again Allegheny Aloha Oe Always Alone Always On My Mind Amen America Remains American By Birth American Trilogy Ancient History And Now He's Alone Angel And The Badman Angel Band Angels Love Bad Men Another Broken Hearted Girl Another Man Done Gone Another Song To Sing Another Wide River To Cross Anthem ’84 Any Old Wind That Blows Apache Tears Appalachian Pride Are All The Children In Are You Washed In The Blood Arkansas Lovin’ Man As Long As I Live As Long As The Grass Shall Grow Ascension Amen Chorus At Calvary At The Cross At The Wailing Wall Austin Prison Away In A Manger (I'm Proud The) Baby Is Mine Baby Ride Easy Back In The Saddle Again A Backstage Pass Bad News Ballad Of A Teenage Queen The Ballad Of Annie Palmer The Ballad Of Barbara The Ballad Of Boot Hill The Ballad Of Forty Dollars The Ballad Of Jesse James Ballad Of Ira Hayes Ballad Of Little Fauss And Big Halsy Ballad Of The Ark Ballad Of The Harp Weaver Bandana The Banks Of The Ohio The Baron The Battle Of Nashville The Battle Of New Orleans Be Careful Who You Love (Arthur's Song) Beans For Breakfast The Beast In Me A Beautiful Day Beautiful Life Beautiful Memphis Beautiful Words Before My Time Begin West Movement Believe In Him A Believer Sings The Truth Belshazar Ben Dewberry's Final Run Besser So, Jenny-Jo Best Friend Best of All Possible Worlds Better Class Of Losers Big Balls In Nashville The Big Battle Big Foot Big Iron The Big Light Big River Big Train (From Memphis) Bill's Theme Billy And Rex And Oral And Bob Billy Brown Bird On A Wire A Bird With A Broken Wing Blessed Are Blistered The Blizzard Blue Bandana Blue Christmas Blue Train Blueberry Hill Blues For Two The Blues Keep Gettin' Bluer Blue Yodel #1 Blue Yodel #5 Boa Constrictor Bonanza! Boogie Borderline (A Musical Whodunit) Born And Raised In Black And White Born To Lose Boss Jack Bottom Of A Mountain A Boy Named Sue Brakeman's Blues Brand New Dance Breaking Bread Bridge Over Troubled Water Broken Freedom Song Broken Hearted Lover Brown Eyes Brown-Eyed Handsome Man The Bug That Tried To Crawl Around The World Bull Rider Burden Of Freedom Bury Me Not On The Lone Prairie Busted Cajun Born Calilou Call Daddy From The Mine(s) Call Me The Breeze Call Of The Wild Can't Help But Wonder Where I'm Bound Careless Love The Caretaker Casey Casey Jones Casey's Last Ride Cat's in the Cradle The Cattle Call 'Cause I Love You A Ceiling, Four Walls, And A Floor A Certain Kinda Hurtin' Chain Gang Change The Locks Chattanooga City Limit Sign Chattanooga Sugarbabe The Chicken In Black Children Children, Go Where I Send Thee Choosing Of Twelve Disciples Christmas As I Knew It The Christmas Guest The Christmas Spirit Christmas Time's A Comin' Christmas With You (I'm Just An Old) Chunk Of Coal (But I'll Be A Diamond Someday) Church In The Wildwood Church Of The Holy Sepulchre Cindy Cindy, I Love You Cisco Clifton's Fillin' Station City Jail City Of New Orleans Class Of '55 Clean Your Own Tables Clementine Close The Door Lightly Closer To The Bone Cloudburst Cocaine Blues Cocaine Carolina Cold Shoulder Cold, Cold, Heart Cold, Lonesome Morning The Color Of Love Come Along And Ride This Train Come In, Stranger Come Take A Trip In My Airship Come To The Wailing Wall Come Unto Me Coming Home Committed To Parkview Concerning Your New Song The Continuance Cool Water Cotton Fields Cotton Pickin' Hands Country Boy Country Pie Country Trash The Cowboy Who Started The Fight The Cowboy's Prayer Cowboys And Ladies Crazy Crazy Old Soldier The Cremation of Sam McGee A Croft In Clachan (The Ballad Of Rob MacDunn) Crossing The Sea Of Galilee Crucifixion Cry! Cry! Cry! Crystal Chandeliers And Burgundy Cuban Soldier A Cup Of Coffee Custer Daddy Daddy Sang Bass The Danger Zone Danny Boy Dark As A Dungeon Darling Am I The One Darlin' Companion Daughter Of A Railroad Man A Day In The Grand Canyon Dear Mrs. Death And Hell The Death Of Me Delia's Gone Deportee (Plane Wreck At Los Gatos) Desperado Desperados Waiting For A Train Destination Victoria Station Detroit City The Devil Comes Back to Georgia The Devil To Pay The Devil's Right Hand Diamonds In The Rough Didn't It Rain Dinosaur Song The Diplomat Dirty Old Egg-Suckin' Dog Do Lord Do What You Do, Do Well Doesn't Anybody Know My Name Doin' My Time Don't Go Near The Water Don't Make Me Go Don't Sell Daddy Any More Whiskey Don't Step On Mother's Roses Don't Take Anyone To Be Your Friend (Don't Take Everybody For Your Friend) Don't Take Your Guns To Town Don't Think Twice, It's Alright Dorraine Of Ponchartrain Down At Drippin’ Springs Down In The Valley Down The Line Down The Road I Go Down The Street To 301 Down There By The Train The Drifter Drink To Me Only With Thine Eyes Drive On Drums Duelin' Dukes Earthquake And Darkness East Virginia Blues Easy Street Empty Chair The End Of Understanding Engine 143 (One-Forty-Three) The Engineer's Dying Child Even Cowgirls Get The Blues The Evening Train Everybody Loves A Nut Everybody's Trying To Be My Baby Everyone Gets Crazy Everything Is Beautiful Face Of Despair Fair And Tender Ladies Fair Weather Friends Family Bible Far Away Places Far Side Banks Of Jordan Farmer's Almanac Farther Along Fast Boat to Sydney A Fast Song Father And Daughter (Father And Son) Feast Of The Passover Feeding The Multitude Field Of Diamonds Figgy Puddin' The First Noel First Time Ever I Saw Your Face Fisher's Of Men Five Feet High And Rising Five Minutes To Live Flesh And Blood The Flint Arrowhead Flushed From The Bathroom Of Your Heart Fly Little Bird The Folk Singer Folks Out On The Road Follow Me Follow Me Jesus Folsom Prison Blues Fool's Hall Of Fame Foolish Questions For Lovin' Me For The Good Times For You Forever Young Forty Shades Of Green Four Months To Live Four Strong Winds The Fourth Man (In The Fire) Frankie's Man, Johnny Friendly Gates Friends In California From Sea To Shining Sea A Front Row Seat to Hear Ole Johnny Sing The Frozen Four Hundred Pound Fair To Middlin' Cotton Picker The Frozen Logger Fuego De'amor Funny How Time Slips Away Further On (Up The Road) Gadsby's Restaurant Galway Bay The Gambler Gathering Flowers For The Beautiful Bouquet Gathering Flowers From The Hillside The General Lee Gentle On My Mind Georgia On A Fast Train Get in Line, Brother Get Rhythm The Gettysburg Address (Ghost) Riders In The Sky The Gifts They Gave Girl From The Canyon Girl From The North Country Girl In Saskatoon Give It Away Give Me Back My Job Give My Love To Rose Go On Blues Go Wild God Ain't No Stained Glass Wigndow God Bless Robert E Lee God Is Not Dead God Must Have My Fortune Laid Away God Will God's Gonna Cut You Down God's Hands Godshine Goin' By The Book Goin' Down The Road Feelin' Bad Going To Memphis Gone Gone Girl The Good Earth Good Morning Friend Good Old American Guest Good Old Mountain Dew The Good, the Bad, and the Cookie Kid Goodbye, Little Darlin', Goodbye Goodnight Irene Gospel Boogie Gospel Road Gospel Ship (My) Grandfather's Clock Great Commission The Great Speckle(d) Bird Greater Love Hath No Man The Greatest Cowboy Of Them All Greatest Love Affair Green Grow The Lilacs Green, Green Grass Of Home Greystone Chapel Guess Things Happen That Way A Half A Mile A Day Hammers And Nails Hank And Joe And Me Happiness Is You Happy To Be With You Hard Times (Come Again No More) Hard Times Comin' The Hard Way Hardin Wouldn't Run Hark! The Herald Angels Sing Harley Have A Drink Of Water Have Thine Own Way Lord Have You Ever Seen the Rain He Is Risen He Stopped Loving Her Today He Touched Me He Turned The Water Into Wine He'll Be A Friend He'll Understand and Say Well Done He's Alive Heart Of Gold Heartbeat Heavy Metal (Don't Mean Rock And Roll To Me) Hello Again Hello Out There Help Him, Jesus Help Me Help Me Make It Through The Night Here Comes that Rainbow Again Here Was A Man Heroes Heroes In Black And White Hey Good Lookin' Hey Hey Train Hey Porter Hiawatha's Vision Hidden Shame High Heel Sneakers Highway Patrolman The Highwayman Hit The Road And Go The Hobo Song Home of the Blues Honky Tonk Girl The House Is Falling Down How Beautiful Heaven Must Be How Did You Get Away From Me How Great Thou Art The Human Condition Hung My Head Hungry Hurt Hurt So Bad I Ain't A Song I Am A Pilgrim I Am The Nation (I Been To) Georgia On A Fast Train I Call Him I Came To Believe I Can't Go On That Way I Can't Help It (If I'm Still In Love With You) I Corinthians 15:55 I Could Never Be Ashamed Of You I Couldn't Keep from Crying I Do Believe I Don't Believe You Wanted To Leave I Don't Hurt Anymore I Don't Know Where I'm Bound I Don't Think I Could Take You Back Again I Dreamed About Mama Last Night I Feel Better All Over I Forgot More Than You'll Ever Know I Forgot To Remember To Forget I Got A Boy (And His Name Is John) I Got a Woman I Got Shoes I Got Stripes (I) Guess Things Happen That Way I Hardly Ever Sing Beer Drinking Songs (I Heard That) Lonesome Whistle (Blow) I Heard The Bells On Christmas Day I Hung My Head I Just Thought You'd Like To Know I Love You Because I Love You Sweetheart I Love You, Love You I Never Got To Know Him Very Well I Never Met A Man Like You Before I Never Picked Cotton I Promise You I Ride An Old Paint I Saw A Man I Saw The Light I See A Darkness I See Men As Trees Walking I Shall Be Free I Shall Not Be Moved I Still Miss Someone I Talk To Jesus Every Day I Threw It All Away I Tremble For You I Walk The Line I Want To Go Home I Wanted So I Was There When It Happened (So I Guess I Ought To Know) I Washed My Face In The Morning Dew I Will Dance With You I Will Miss You When You Go I Will Rock And Roll With You I Wish I Was Crazy Again I Witness A Crime I Won't Back Down I Won’t Have To Cross Jordan Alone I Would Like To See You Again I'd Just Be Fool Enough (To Fall) I'd Rather Die Young I'd Rather Have You I'd Still Be There I'll Always Love You (In My Own Crazy Way) I'll Be All Smiles Tonight I'll Be Home For Christmas I'll Be Loving You I'll Cross Over Jordon Someday I'll Fly Away I'll Go Somewhere And Sing My Songs Again I'll Have a New Life I'll Remember You I'll Say It's True I'll Take You Home Again Kathleen I'm A Drifter I'm A Newborn Man I'm A Worried Man I'm Alright Now I'm An Easy Rider I'm An Old Cow Hand I'm Bound For The Promised Land I'm Free From The Chain Gang Now I'm Going To Memphis I'm Gonna Sit On The Porch And Pick On My Old Guitar I'm Gonna Try To Be That Way I'm Here To Get My Baby Out Of Jail (I'm Just An Old) Chunk Of Coal (But I'll Be A Diamond Someday) I'm Leavin' Now I'm Movin' On I'm Never Gonna Roam Again I'm On Fire (I'm Proud) The Baby Is Mine I'm Ragged but I'm Right I'm So Lonesome I Could Cry I'm Thinking Tonight of My Blue Eyes I'm Working On A Building I've Always Been Crazy I've Been Everywhere I've Been Saved I've Been Working On The Railroad I've Got A Thing About Trains I've Got Jesus In My Soul I've Never Met A Man Like You Before If He Came Back Again If I Give My Soul If I Had A Hammer If I Were A Carpenter If It Wasn't For The Wabash River If Jesus Ever Loved A Woman If Not For Love If The Good Lord's Willing If We Never Meet Again This Side Of Heaven If You Could Read My Mind Impersonations Interlude In A Young Girl’s Mind In Bethlehem In God’s Hands In My Life In Our Mind In The Garden In The Garden Of Gethsemane In The Jailhouse Now In The Sweet By And By (In Them Old) Cotton Fields (Back Home) In Virginia In Your Mind Introduction Under The Double Eagle The Invertebraes Is This My Destiny It Ain't Gonna Worry My Mind It Ain't Me, Babe It Ain’t Nothin' New Babe It Came Upon A Midnight Clear It Comes And Goes It Could Be You (Instead Of Him) It Is No Secret (What God Can Do) It Is What It Is It Takes One To Know Me It Was Jesus (Who Was It?) It'll Be Her It's A Sin To Tell A Lie It's All Over It's Alright It's Just About Time Jackson Jacob Green Jealous Loving Heart Jeri And Nina's Melody Jesus Jesus And Children Jesus And Nicodemus Jesus Announces His Divinity Jesus Appears To Disciples Jesus Before Caiaphas, Pilate, And Herod Jesus Cleanses Temple Jesus Cleanses Temple Again Jesus In My Soul (I’ve Got Jesus In My Soul) Jesus In The Temple Jesus Is Lord Jesus Upbraids Scribes And Pharisees Jesus Was A Carpenter Jesus Was Our Saviour (Cotton Was Our King) Jesus Wept Jesus’ Death Jesus’ Early Years Jesus’ Entry Into Jerusalem Jesus’ First Miracle Jesus’ Last Words Jesus’ Opposition Is Established Jesus’ Second Coming Jesus’ Teachings Jim, I Wore A Tie Today Jingle Bells Joe Bean John 14-1-3 John Henry John The Baptist John The Baptist’s Imprisonment And Death John’s Johnny 99 Johnny Reb Jordan Joshua Gone Barbados Joy To The World The Junkie And The Juicehead (Minus Me) Just A Closer Walk With Thee Just About Time Just As I Am Just One More Just The Other Side Of Nowhere Kate Kathy Katy Too Keep On The Sunny Side Keep Your Eyes On Jesus Kentucky Straight King Of Love King Of The Hill Kleine Ros(e)marie The Kneeling Drunkard's Plea The L And N Don’t Stop Here Anymore Lady The Lady Came From Baltimore Land Of Israel The Last Cowboy Song Last Date The Last Gunfighter Ballad Last Night I Had The Strangest Dream The Last Of The Drifters Last Supper The Last Thing On My Mind The Last Time Lately Lately I Been Leanin’ Toward The Blues Lay Back With My Woman Lay Me Down In Dixie Lead Me Father Lead Me Gently Home (Father) Leave That Junk Alone A Legend In My Time The Legend Of John Henry's Hammer Let America Be America Again Let Him Roll Let Me Down Easy Let Me Help You Carry This Weight Let The Lower Lights Be Burning (Running) Let The Train Blow The Whistle Let There Be Country Let Those Brown Eyes Smile At Me The Letter Edged In Black Letter(s) From Home Life Goes On Life Has Its Little Ups And Downs Life Of A Prisoner Life's Railway To Heaven Lights Of Magdala Like A Soldier Like A Young Colt Like The 309 The Lily Of The Valley A Little At A Time Little Bit Of Yesterday The Little Drummer Boy Little Gray Donkey Little Green Fountain Little Magic Glasses Little Man Little Mockingbird Live Forever Living Legend Living The Blues Living Water And The Bread Of Life Loading Coal Locomotive Man Lonesome To The Bone Lonesome Valley (I Heard That) Lonesome Whistle (Blow) The Long Black Veil Long Legged Guitar Pickin’ Man Look At Them Beans Look For Me Look Unto The East Lookin’ Back In Anger Lord Is It I Lord Take These Hands Lord, I'm Coming Home Lord, Lord, Lord Lord’s Prayer Amen Chorus Lorena Losin' You Losing Kind Lost On The Desert Louisiana Man Love Has Lost Again Love Is A Gambler Love Is My Refuge Love Is The Way Love Me Like You Used To Love Me Tender The Love That Never Failed Love's Been Good To Me Lovin' Locomotive Man The Loving Gift Lower Lights Lumberjack Luther Played The Boogie (Luther's Boogie) Mama, You've Been On My Mind Mama’s Baby The Man Comes Around Man In Black Man In White The Man On The Hill The Man Who Couldn’t Cry Mariners And Musicians Mary Magdalene Returns To Galilee Mary Of The Wild Moor The Masterpiece The Matador Matchbox Matthew 24 (Is Knocking At The Door) Me And Bobby McGee Me And Paul Mean As Hell Mean-Eyed Cat Meet Me In Heaven Melva’s Wine Memories Are Made Of This Mercy Seat Merry Christmas Mary Michigan City Howdy Do Miller's Cave The Miracle Man Miss Tara Mississippi Delta Land Mississippi Sand Missouri Waltz Mister Garfield Mobile Bay Monteagle Mountain More Jesus Teaching Mother Maybelle Mother's Love Mountain Dew Mountain Lady Movin' Mr Garfield Mr Lonesome Muddy Waters My Children Walk In Truth My Clinch Mountain Home My Cowboy's Last Ride My God Is Real (Yes, God Is Real) (My) Grandfather's Clock My Merry Christmas Song My Mother Was A Lady My Old Faded Rose My Old Kentucky Home (Turpentine And Dandelion Wine) My Ship Will Sail My Shoes Keep Walking Back To You My Treasure My Wife June At Sea Of Galilee The Mystery Of Life Mystery Of Number Five Nashville Skyline Rag Nasty Dan Navajo Nazarene Ned Kelly Never Grow Old New Cut Road New Mexico New Moon Over Jamaica (I'm A) Newborn Man News Conference The Next In Line Next Time I’m In Town The Night Hank Williams Came To Town Night Life The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down Nine Pound Hammer No Charge No Earthly Good No Expectations No Need To Worry No, No, No No One Will Ever Know No Setting Sun Nobody Nobody Cared O Christmas Tree O Come All Ye Faithful O Little Town Of Bethlehem Oh Bury Me Not On The Lone Prairie Oh Come, Angel Band Oh, Lonesome Me Oh, What A Dream Oh, What A Good Thing We Had The Old Account Was Settled Long Ago Old Apache Squaw (I'm Just An) Old Chunk Of Coal (But I'll Be A Diamond Someday) Old Doc Brown Old Fashioned Tree Old Gospel Ship The Old Rugged Cross Old Shep The Old Spinning Wheel Old Time Feeling Ole Slew Foot On The Evening Train On The Line On The Road Again On The Trail On The Via Dolorosa On Wheels And Wings Once Before I Die One One And One Makes Two One More Ride One Of These Days I’m Gonna Sit Down And Talk To Paul The One On The Right Is On The Left One Piece At A Time The One Rose (That's Left In My Heart) One Too Many Mornings One Way Rider Oney Only Love Opening The West Orange Blossom Special Orleans Parish Prison Orphan Of The Road Our Guide Jacob At Mount Tabor Out Among The Stars Outside Looking In Over The Next Hill Over There Pack Up Your Sorrows Painted Desert Papa Was A Good Man Parable Of The Good Shepherd Paradise Passin' Thru Paul Revere (There'll Be) Peace In The Valley (For Me) Peggy Day Personal Jesus Pick A Bale O' Cotton Pick The Wildwood Flower Pick Up The Tempo Pickin' Time Pie In The Sky The Pilgrim The Pine Tree Please Don’t Let Me Out Please Don’t Play Red River Valley Pocahontas Poor Valley Girl Port Of Lonely Hearts Praise The Lord And Pass The Soup The Preacher Said, “Jesus Said” Precious Memories The Prisoner's Song A Proud Land Put The Sugar To Bed Ragged Old Flag Raising Of Lazarus Reaching For The Stars Reason To Believe The Rebel - Johnny Yuma Red Velvet Redemption Redemption Day Redemption Song Reflections Relief Is Just A Swallow Away Remember Me (I'm The One Who Loves You) Remember The Alamo Restless Return To The Promised Land The Reverend Mr. Black Ride This Train (Ghost) Riders In The Sky Ridin' On The Cotton Belt Ring Of Fire Ringing The Bells For Jim Riot In Cell Block No 9 The Road Goes On Forever The Road To Kaintuck Rock And Roll (Fais-Do-Do) Rock And Roll Ruby Rock And Roll Shoes Rock Island line Rock Of Ages Rockabilly Blues (Texas 1955) Rocket 69 Rodeo Hand Roll Call Rollin’ Free Rosanna's Going Wild Rose Of My Heart Roughneck Route #1, Box 144 Rowboat Run Softly, Blue River The Running Kind Rusty Cage Saginaw, Michigan Sailor On A Concrete Sea Salty Dog Sam Hall Sam Stone San Quentin Sanctified A Satisfied Mind Saturday Night In Hickman County Sea Of Heartbreak Seal It In My Heart And Mind Seasons Of My Heart Second Honeymoon See Ruby Fall Send A Picture Of Mother September When It Comes Sermon On The Mount Shamrock Doesn’t Grow In California Shantytown She Came from the Mountains She's A Go-Er Shepherd Of My Heart The Shifting, Whispering Sands Shrimpin’ Sailin’ Silent Night (That) Silver Haired Daddy Of Mine Silver Stallion Sing A Song Sing A Travelin' Song Sing It Pretty, Sue A Singer Of Songs Singin’ In Vietnam Talkin’ Blues The Singing Star’s Queen Single Girl, Married Girl Six Days On The Road Six Gun Shooting Six White Horses Sixteen Tons Slow Rider Smiling Bill McCall Smokey Factory Blues Snow In His Hair So Do I So Doggone Lonesome Softly And Tenderly Sold Out Of Flagpoles Soldier Boy Soldier’s Last Letter Solitary Man Someday My Ship Will Sail A Song For The Life Song Of The Coward Song Of The Patriot A Song To Mama Song To Woody Songs That Make A Difference The Sons Of Katie Elder The Sound Of Laughter Southern Accents Southern Comfort Southwestward Southwind Spanish Harlem Spiritual Stampede Standing On The Promises Starkville City Jail State Of The Nation Steel Guitar Rag Still In Town The Story Of A Broken Heart Straight A's In Love Strange Things Happen Every Day (There Are Strange Things Happening Every Day) Strawberry Cake The Streets Of Laredo Suffer Little Children Sugartime Sunday Mornin' Comin' Down Sunrise Sunset Suppertime Sweet Betsy From Pike Sweeter Than The Flowers Swing Low, Sweet Chariot T Is For Texas Take Me Home The Talking Leaves Tall Man Taller Than Trees Tear Stained Letter Tears In The Holston River Tell Him I'm Gone Temptation The Ten Commandments The Ten Commandments Of Love Tennessee Flat-Top Box Tennessee Stud Texas Texas 1947 Thanks A Lot Thanks To You That Christmasy Feeling That Lucky Old Sun (Just Rolls Around Heaven All Day) That Old Time Feeling That Old Wheel That Silver Haired Daddy Of Mine That's All Over That's Alright Mama That's Enough That’s How I Got To Memphis That's One You Owe Me That's The Truth That’s The Way It Is That’s What It’s Like To Be Lonesome There Ain’t No Easy Run There Ain't No Good Chain Gang There Are Strange Things Happening Every Day There Is (There's) A Bear In The Woods There You Go (There'll Be) Peace In The Valley (For Me) These Are My People These Things Shall Pass They Killed Him They’re All The Same A Thing Called Love Thirteen This Is Nazareth This Land Is Your Land This Ole House This Side Of The Law This Town This Train Is Bound For Glory Thoughts On The Flag The Three Bells Thunderball Tiger Whitehead The Timber Man Time And Time Again Time Changes Everything Time Of The Preacher To All The Girls I've Loved Before To Beat The Devil To The Shining Mountains Tonight I’ll Be Staying Here With You Tony Too Little, Too Late Town Of Cana Train Of Love Transfusion Blues The Troubadour Trouble In Mind Troublesome Waters True Love Is Greater Than Friendship True Love Travels A Gravel Road The Twentieth Century Is Almost Over Two Greatest Commandments Two Old Army Pals Two Stories Wide Two Timin' Woman The Vanishing Race Vaya Con Dios The Very Biggest Circus Of Them All Veteran’s Day Viel Zu Spat Virgien W. Lee O Daniel (And The Light Crust Dough Boys) Wabash Blues The Wabash Cannonball Waiting For A Long Time Waiting For A Southern Train Waiting For A Train Walkin’ The Blues The Wall The Walls Of A Prison The Wanderer walk the line Wanted Man Water From The Wells Of Home Wayfaring Stranger Waymore’s Blues The Ways Of A Woman In Love The Wayworn Traveler We Are The Shepherds We Must Believe In Magic We Ought To Be Ashamed We Remember The King We’ll Meet Again We’re All In Your Corner We’re For Love Wednesday Car Welcome Back Jesus Welfare Line Wer Kennt Den Weg Were You There (When They Crucified My Lord) West Canterbury Subdivision Blues The West What Child Is This What Do I Care What Have You Got Planned Tonight, Diana What I’ve Learned What Is Man What Is Truth What On Earth (Will You Do For Heaven's Sake) What’d I Say What’s Good For You (Should Be Alright For Me) When He Comes When He Reached Down His Hand For Me When I Look When I Stop Dreaming When I Take My Vacation In Heaven When I’m Gray When I’ve Learned (Enough To Die) When It's Springtime In Alaska (It's Forty Below) When Papa Played The Dobro (When) The Man Comes Around When The Roll Is Called Up Yonder When The Roses Bloom Again When The Saviour Reached Down For Me When Uncle Bill Quit Dope When You Are Twenty One Where Did We Go Right Where I Found You Where The Soul Of Man Never Dies Where We’ll Never Grow Old While I've Got It On My Mind The Whirl And The Suck White Christmas White Girl Who At My Door Is Standing Who Kept The Sheep Who's Gene Autry? Why Do You Punish Me (For Loving You) Why Is A Fire Engine Red Why Me, Lord? Wichita Lineman Wide Open Road Wilderness Temptation Wildwood Flower Wildwood In The Pines Will The Circle Be Unbroken Will You Miss Me When I'm Gone The Wind Changes The Winding Stream Wings In The Morning Without Love Wo Ist Zuhause, Mama W-O-M-A-N The Wonder Of You A Wonderful Time Up There Woodcarver The World Needs A Melody World’s Gonna Fall On You Worried Man Worried Man Blues Worried Mind Would You Lay with Me (In a Field of Stone) A Wound Time Can’t Erase The Wreck Of The Old 97 Wrinkled, Crinkled, Wadded Dollar Bill You And Me You And Tennessee You Are My Sunshine You Are (You're) The Nearest Thing To Heaven You Beat All I Ever Saw You Can’t Beat Jesus Christ You Comb Her Hair You Dreamer You You (Just) Can’t Beat Jesus Christ You Remembered Me You Tell Me You Wild Colorado You Win Again You Won’t Have Far to Go You’ll Be All Right You’ll Get Yours And I’ll Get Mine You’ll Never Walk Alone You’re Driftin’ Away You're Home Sweet Home To Me You’re My Baby (Little Woolly Booger) You’re So Close To Me You’re The Nearest Thing To Heaven You’ve Got A New Light Shining In Your Eyes"
"Johnny Cash and His Woman is an album by American country singer Johnny Cash and features his wife, June Carter Cash. It was released on Columbia Records in 1973. It is Johnny Cash's 46th album and it peaked at No. 32 on the country album charts. Johnny Cash - vocals, guitar June Carter Cash - vocals Bob Wootton, Carl Perkins, David Jones - guitar Marshall Grant - bass WS Holland - drums Bill Walker, Jerry Whitehurst - piano, keyboards Additional personnel Produced by Don Law Productions Arranged and conducted by Bill Walker Engineering: Charlie Bragg, Roger Tucker, Joey Watson, Album - Billboard (North America) Singles - Billboard (North America) "
'Stage management is the practice of organizing and coordinating a theatrical production. It encompasses a variety of activities, including organizing the production and coordinating communications between various personnel (e.g., between director and backstage crew, or actors and production management). Stage management is a sub-discipline of stagecraft. Stage managers may use a Stage Manager's book to help organize the production. A stage manager is one who has overall responsibility for stage management and the smooth execution of a production. Stage management may be performed by an individual in small productions, while larger productions typically employ a stage management team consisting of a head stage manager, or "Production Stage Manager", and one or more assistant stage managers. Between the Renaissance and the 16th century, actors and playwrights took upon themselves the handling of finances, general directorial duties, and stage management. Stage management first emerged as a distinct role in the 17th century during Shakespeare's and Molière's time, though it wasn't until the 18th century in England that the term Stage Manager was used. This was the first time a person other than actors and playwright was hired to direct or manage the stage. Over time, with the rise in complexity of theatre due to advances such as mechanized scenery, quick costume changes, and controlled lighting, the stage manager's job was split into two positions—director and stage manager. Many playwrights, directors and actors had as their first job in the theatre work as an assistant stage manager. Writer and director Preston Sturges, for example, was employed as an ASM on Isadora Duncan's production of Oedipus Rex at the age of 16 and a half: When one is responsible for giving an offstage cue, even the simplest ones, like the ring of a telephone or a birdcall, demand considerable sangfroid, and the job is nervewracking. One is very much aware that everything depends on the delivery of the cue at exactly the right microsecond. One stands there, knees slightly bent, breathing heavily... Sturges didn't last long in this job, due to his calling for thunder and then lightning instead of lightning and then thunder, but 16 years later Brock Pemberton hired him as an ASM on Antoinette Perry's production of Goin' Home, which led to the first mounting of one of Sturges' plays on Broadway, The Guinea Pig, in 1929. The responsibilities and duties of stage management vary depending on the setting of a production (i.e., rehearsal or performance) and the type of production (e.g., theatre, dance, music). Most broadly, it is the stage manager's responsibility to ensure that the director's artistic choices are realized in actual performance. As the lighting, sound, and set change cues are developed, the stage manager records the timing of each as it relates to the script and other aspects of the performance. The stage manager maintains a prompt book, sometimes called "the book" or "the bible," which contains all cues, technical notes, blocking and other information pertinent to the show. During rehearsals, the stage manager typically serves as an adjunct to the director by recording the blocking and ensuring that cast members stay on script, have the requisite props, and follow the blocking. Stage managers are responsible for helping establish a show's rehearsal schedule and ensuring that rehearsals run on time. The stage manager typically documents each rehearsal in a rehearsal report. Once the house opens for a performance, the stage manager controls all aspects of the performance by calling the cues for all transitions (this is known as "calling the show") and acting as communications hub for the cast and crew. Large productions may utilize a stage management team in which the manager is responsible for calling the show while other team members operate backstage to ensure actors and crew are ready to perform their duties. After a show opens, the stage manager is also responsible for calling brush-up, put in and understudy rehearsals to make sure that the show's quality is maintained. The stage manager ensures that lighting and sound cues are acted upon at the right time by issuing verbal standby and prompt calls. Each cue call begins with the word "standby" to indicate that an action is imminent and, in response, the technician who will perform the action acknowledges readiness to perform the action. Occasionally, after a long pause or break in the production's action, the stage manager will give a "warning" cue. This warns the technicians that the next cue is approaching. At the appropriate time, the stage manager will prompt immediate execution of the action by saying "go". In the United States, Stage Manager is a generic title that may be applied to anyone who performs stage management functions. On small shows, one person typically performs all the tasks of stage management, and is simply referred to as the stage manager. Larger shows often need two or more stage managers. In such cases the head stage manager is titled Production Stage Manager (commonly abbreviated PSM), and working under the PSM is one or more Assistant Stage Managers (commonly abbreviated ASM). Shows that employ three stage managers have a PSM and two ASMs, though the program credits may list them as Production Stage Manager (first or head stage manager), Stage Manager (second stage manager), and Assistant Stage Manager (third stage manager). Some professional stage managers in plays and musicals may choose to be represented by a union known as the Actors' Equity Association. In addition to performing their typical stage management duties (e.g., maintaining the prompt book and calling performances), Equity stage managers are also required to uphold the union's rules and rights for Equity artists. Union stage managers for opera, ballet, and modern dance are represented by the American Guild of Musical Artists and perform most of the same duties as their counterparts in plays and musicals. In the UK, the structure of a stage management team depends on the type and size of the production. It can consist of stage manager (overseeing the running of the show), deputy stage manager (commonly called DSM) and assistant stage manager (commonly called ASM). A fringe theatre show may employ one stage manager to carry out the tasks of an entire team, whereas a West End theatre show in London might employ multiple ASMs. Professional stage managers are represented by the British Actors' Equity Association, which also represents performers. The DSM prompts actors and will usually cue technical crew members and sometimes cast, while following the orders of the director and stage manager. The DSM calls actors to hold while technical problems are sorted out during rehearsal, and determines where in the script to restart halted scenes. The deputy stage manager (DSM) is a separate position in some theatres, while in others the responsibilities of the DSM may be assumed by the stage manager or assistant stage manager. The assistant stage manager (ASM) has varied responsibilities, which are assigned by the stage manager. The ASM assists in finding and maintaining props during rehearsals and the run of the show. The ASM may take attendance or estimate audience size, may manage the backstage technicians, may act as a liaison between crew, cast and management, and may call some cues. Mundane tasks such as mopping the stage and brewing coffee or tea may fall to the ASM. If the stage manager is unable to perform his or her duties, the ASM must be able to fill in. The assistant may also be in charge of one wing of the stage, while the stage manager is on the other wing. Many live shows around the world are produced with the forehand knowledge that they will have a very long run, often measured in years. These are usually known quantities that are very expensive productions and have a guaranteed audience because of their location. Typically, they are on cruise ships, in theme parks, Las Vegas or at destination resorts. These shows warrant very long range development and planning and use stage managers to run almost all technical elements in the show, without benefit of many of the other traditional crew members, such as sound, lighting and rigging operators. In these cases, show control systems are installed and connected to all other technical systems in the theatre, which are specifically designed to be controlled by show control and to operate safely with minimal supervision. Stage managers working these shows usually have the additional responsibility for programming the show control system, and often the other control systems as well. Notes Bibliography Pallin, Gail (25 April 2003). Stage Management: The Essential Handbook (2 ed.). London: Nick Hern Books. ISBN 1-85459-734-5. Bond, Daniel (2002). Stage management: a gentle art (3 ed.). London: A & C Black. ISBN 0-7136-5983-1.'
'The Stage is a British weekly newspaper and website covering the entertainment industry, and particularly theatre. It was founded in 1880. It contains news, reviews, opinion, features, and recruitment advertising, mainly directed at those who work in theatre and the performing arts. The first edition of The Stage was published (under the title The Stage Directory – a London and Provincial Theatrical Advertiser) on 1 February 1880 at a cost of 3 old pence for twelve pages. Publication was monthly until 25 March 1881, when the first weekly edition was produced. At the same time, the name was shortened to The Stage and the publication numbering restarted at number 1. The publication was a joint venture between founding editor Charles Lionel Carson (then aged 33) and business manager Maurice Comerford (26), and operated from offices opposite the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane. The Stage entered a crowded market, with many other theatre titles (including The Era) in circulation. Undercutting their rivals, Carson and Comerford dropped the price of the paper to one penny and was soon the only remaining title in its field. The newspaper has remained in family ownership. Upon the death in 1937 of Charles Carson's son Lionel, who had assumed the joint role of managing director and editor, control passed to the Comerford family. The current managing director, Hugh Comerford, is founder Maurice's great-grandson. In 1959 The Stage was relaunched as The Stage and Television Today, incorporating a pull-out supplement dedicated to broadcasting news and features. Derek Hoddinott, the main paper's TV editor, became editor of the new supplement. The name and supplement remained until 1995, when broadcasting coverage was re-incorporated into the main paper. The name on the masthead reverted to The Stage, but in 2006, the paper introduced a blog concentrating on television, named TV Today. From 1995, the newspaper has awarded The Stage Awards for Acting Excellence at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe. In 2004, 96-year-old contributor Simon Blumenfeld was recognised by Guinness World Records as the world's oldest weekly newspaper columnist. The column continued until shortly before his death in 2005. The Stage Awards were launched in 2010. They are given annually and recognise outstanding organisations working in theatre and beyond in the following categories: London theatre, regional theatre, producer, school, fringe theatre, theatre building, unsung hero and international. August 2013 The Stage launched The Stage Castings, an affordable online casting service with a unique video audition function. In 1956, writer John Osborne submitted his script for Look Back in Anger in response to an advertisement by the soon-to-be-launched Royal Court Theatre. Dusty Springfield responded to an advertisement for female singers in 1958. Idris Elba got his first acting role in a play after applying to a job ad in the paper.. Kenneth Branagh landed the lead role in The Billy Trilogy, in the BBC Play for Today series, after it was advertised in the paper. Ricky Tomlinson responded to an ad for United Kingdom, another Play for Today, in 1981. Writer and broadcaster Sandi Toksvig landed her first television job playing the part of Ethel in No. 73 after answering an ad in The Stage. She played the part for five years. Television presenter Maggie Philbin won her first major role, as a co-presenter of Multi-Coloured Swap Shop, after answering an advertisement in The Stage. A number of pop groups have recruited all or some of their members through advertisements placed in the newspaper, most notably the Spice Girls in 1994, Scooch in 1998 and 5ive in 1997. Lee Mead (the actor who won BBC One talent show Any Dream Will Do to gain the lead role in Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat) got his first professional job, working on a cruise ship, through a recruitment ad in the paper. Television presenter Ben Shephard auditioned for GMTV children's show Diggit following an advert in The Stage. While he did not get the part, he met Andi Peters, who subsequently hired him for the Channel 4 youth strand T4. Before joining Take That, Gary Barlow applied for roles advertised in The Stage newspaper. 1880–1901 Charles Carson 1901–1904 Maurice Comerford 1904–1937 Lionel Carson 1937–1943 Bernard Weller 1943–1952 S.R. Littlewood 1952–1972 Eric Johns 1972–1992 Peter Hepple 1992–1994 Jeremy Jehu 1994–2014 Brian Attwood 2014–present Alistair Smith (print) and Paddy Smith (online) The paper's full content from 1880-2007 is available digitally via subscription. "The moment you have arrived in the profession is when you realise you don't have to read The Stage" – Noël Coward (attributed) "The stage would not be the stage without The Stage" – Laurence Olivier (The Stage, 25 October 1976) "There's no yellow brick road that's going to lead you straight to Oz, but there are a few things you can do and one of them is look in the back of The Stage." – Ben Shephard Official website The Stage reviews of Internationalist Theatre productions London during the editorship of Peter Hepple'
